CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Contributions are **welcome** and will be fully **credited**.

We accept contributions via Pull Requests on [Github](https://github.com/opencfp/opencfp).

## Pull Requests

- **[PSR-2 Coding Standard](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)** - The easiest way to apply the conventions is to install [PHP Code Sniffer](http://pear.php.net/package/PHP_CodeSniffer).

- **Add tests!** - Your patch probably won't be accepted if it doesn't have tests.

- **Document any change in behaviour** - Make sure the `README.md` and any other relevant documentation are kept up-to-date.

- **Create feature branches** - Feature branches are critically important if you're going to be sending us more than one contribution. Don't send a PR from `master`!

- **One pull request per feature** - If you want to do more than one thing, send multiple pull requests. Large pull requests are difficult to review and manage.

- **Send coherent history** - Make sure each individual commit in your pull request is meaningful. [Appropriate formatting of commit messages](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) is also appreciated!

- **Don't close issues via commit message** - We would rather handle these actions ourselves, especially for longer-running issues that may have many PRs submitting against them.

## Running Tests

Having installed all dependencies via `composer install`:

``` bash
$ ./vendor/bin/phpunit
```

## Credit

This [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) format was graciously lifted from The PHP League's [example](https://github.com/thephpleague/skeleton/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Thanks!

**Happy coding**!

Commit message:

Reference make target for fixing cs issues

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Contributions are **welcome** and will be fully **credited**.

We accept contributions via Pull Requests on [Github](https://github.com/opencfp/opencfp).

## Pull Requests

- **[PSR-2 Coding Standard](https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-2-coding-style-guide.md)** - The easiest way to apply the conventions is to run `make cs`, which will apply all code-style fixes necessary.

- **Add tests!** - Your patch probably won't be accepted if it doesn't have tests.

- **Document any change in behaviour** - Make sure the `README.md` and any other relevant documentation are kept up-to-date.

- **Create feature branches** - Feature branches are critically important if you're going to be sending us more than one contribution. Don't send a PR from `master`!

- **One pull request per feature** - If you want to do more than one thing, send multiple pull requests. Large pull requests are difficult to review and manage.

- **Send coherent history** - Make sure each individual commit in your pull request is meaningful. [Appropriate formatting of commit messages](http://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) is also appreciated!

- **Don't close issues via commit message** - We would rather handle these actions ourselves, especially for longer-running issues that may have many PRs submitting against them.

## Running Tests

Having installed all dependencies via `composer install`:

``` bash
$ ./vendor/bin/phpunit
```

## Credit

This [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) format was graciously lifted from The PHP League's [example](https://github.com/thephpleague/skeleton/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md). Thanks!

**Happy coding**!
